==============================================
The Standardization Survival Kit: presentation
==============================================

To support the digital turn of Social Sciences and Humanities research, it is necessary to stabilize knowledge on standards and research good practices. The goal of the **Standardization Survival Kit**, developed with the `PARTHENOS project <http://parthenos-project.eu>`_ project, is to accompany researchers along this way, giving access to standards and best practices in a meaningful way, by the mediation of research scenarios. These scenarios are at the core of the SSK, as they embed resources with contextual information and relevant examples on standardized processes and methods in a research context. The SSK in an open tool where users are able to publish new scenarios or adapt existing ones. Those scenarios can be seen as a living memory of what should be the best research practices in a given community, made accessible and reusable for other researchers.

Why standards after all?
------------------------

The main issue in defining a policy about standards is to understand
what they actually are. Standards usually take the form of documents
providing information about practices, protocols, or data formats that
can be used as a reference for two parties working in the same field of
activity so that they may produce comparable (or interoperable) results.
This will also foster innovative, cross-disciplinary research paths, and
hopefully contribute to bridging the gap between the different cultures
that are represented in the broad landscape of Humanities and Cultural
Heritage studies.

Nevertheless, standards are not regulations. There is no obligation to
follow them except when one actually wants to produce results that can
be compared with those of a wider community. This is why a
standardization policy for an infrastructure in the Arts and Humanities
should include recommendations as to what approach the scholarly
communities could or should adopt with regard to specific standards.

The SSK: a toolkit for Humanities scholars
---------------------------------

Because there is no obligation to use a given standard, it is essential
to provide potential users with:

#. an awareness of the appropriate standards and the advantages to be gained by adopting them,
#. the cognitive tools to help them identify the optimal use of standards through the selection and possibly customisation of a reference portfolio.

The work carried out by the SSK covers four types of activities related to the deployment and use of standards in the Humanities and Cultural Heritage fields:

-  **Documenting** existing standards to provide reference for scholars who want to find out more about their role and content. This relates to the specific provision of bibliographic sources, available documentation, specific targeted introductions, as well as providing prototypical examples which can serve as models for similar work, possibly made available through focused Virtual Research Environments within the PARTHENOS infrastructure;

-  **Supporting** the actual adoption of standards by identifying how they relate to research scenarios and gathering the essential materials for controlling their deployment (e.g. schemas);

-  **Communicating** with research communities so that they can be made aware of both the need to apply standards in their digital scholarly practices but also be informed of the essential standards for their own fields.

-  **Training** for researchers, by giving them access to complete frameworks so that they may acquire knowledge and know-how on standardized methodologies.

In order to apply these four principles, the SSK focuses on giving
researchers access to standards in a meaningful way. That is why it is
built around research scenarios.

These scenarios are the core of the SSK
because they aim at providing **contextual information** and relevant
**examples** on how standards can be applied in a given research
project. They cover **all the domains of the Humanities**, from
Literature to Heritage science, including History, Social sciences,
Linguistics, etc.

They have been created and they are added to by domain
experts, from **real life researcher-oriented use cases (PARTHENOS,
2016)**, divided into different steps, and involving specific tasks.


Those scenarios can be seen as a living memory of what should be the
best research practices in a given community, made accessible and
reusable for other researchers wishing to carry out a similar project
but unfamiliar with the recommended tools, formats, methods to use, etc.
For that reason, the SSK can be considered as a **complete framework**
showing concrete use of standards, rather than simply a catalog of
resources.

Design principles
-----------------
TODO

SSK components
--------------

The SSK is a web platform builded on three main layers nested within
each other following a specific order: Research scenarios, steps and resources.

Scenarios < Steps < Resources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Each **scenario** within the SSK works like a high-level research guide
for scholars. They are made up of successive **steps** or tasks, and can
be followed as a complete process to solve a given problem with the most
standardized means. For each step, the appropriate **resources** to
perform the given task are proposed, divided into two categories : the
“\ **general resources**\ ” that include the primary documentation and
tools; and the “\ **project-specific resources**\ ” that point to
concrete use cases in which a similar task was accomplished. The
material contained in these sections is of various kinds:

-  the most important is the **state-of-the-art bibliography**, which includes all the documentation needed to carry out a given task. The bibliographical references are up-to-date and gathered within the Zotero library, which was specially created for this project. This choice was made to ease the resource selection process and to allow for a collaborative watch and curation of relevant information. When the resource is available online, a direct link is provided ; otherwise, the user is given all the necessary metadata.

-  the SSK also offers more **technical resources**, such as stylesheets, code samples, software or services: a significant part of these resources has been brought together in a dedicated GitHub environment fed by expert partners of the PARTHENOS project.

-  **Training materials** like tutorials.
